stolostron/backlog#18755 Add hyper (#3425)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/hypershift_configure.adoc

[#hypershift-configure]

> = Configuring HyperShift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring Hosted Control Planes
```

> You can configure HyperShift by converting an existing cluster to a HyperShift management cluster and then deploying a cluster that is managed by the HyperShift management cluster that you converted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy Hosted Control Planes by converting an existing cluster to a Hosting Service cluster and then deploying a cluster managed by the Hosting Service cluster you converted. 
```

> *Important:* Because HyperShift is a Technology Preview feature, the related components are disabled by default. Enable the feature by editing the `multiclusterengine` custom resource to set the `spec.overrides.components[?(@.name=='hypershift-preview')].enabled` to `true`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Important:* Because Hosted Control Planes is a Technology Preview feature, the related components are disabled by default. Enable the feature by editing the `multiclusterengine` custom resource to set the `spec.overrides.components[?(@.name=='hypershift-preview')].enabled` to `true`. 
```

> Enter the following command to enable the HyperShift feature:

Reviewer 2: The following command can not enable the feature, it just can check whether the feature was enabled.

Author: Made that change.

> Enter the following command to verify that the HyperShift feature is enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter the following command to verify that the Hosted Control Plane feature is enabled:
```

----
oc get mce multiclusterengine-sample -ojsonpath="{.spec.overrides.components[?(@.name=='hypershift-preview')].enabled}"
true
----

[#hypershift-convert-mgt-cluster]

> == Converting an existing cluster to a HyperShift management cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Converting an existing cluster to a Hosting Service Cluster
```

[#hypershift-convert-mgt-cluster-prereq]
=== Prerequisites

> You must have the multicluster engine operator installed on at least one cluster that is managed by {ocp}. The multicluster engine operator is automatically installed when you install {product-title-short} version 2.5, and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have the Multi-Cluster Engine operator installed on at least one cluster that is managed by {ocp}. The multicluster engine operator is automatically installed when you install {product-title-short} version 2.5, and later.
```

> *Note:* If you want your {product-title-short} hub cluster to be your HyperShift management cluster, you can configure `local-cluster` as your HyperShift management cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* If you want your {product-title-short} hub cluster to be your Hosted Control Planes management cluster, you can configure `local-cluster` as your Hosting Service Cluster.
```

> Complete the following steps to convert an {ocp-short} managed cluster to a HyperShift management cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete the following steps to convert an {ocp-short} managed cluster to a Hosting Service cluster:
```

. Install the HyperShift add-on.
+

> The cluster that hosts the HyperShift operator is the HyperShift management cluster. In this step, use the `hypershift-addon` to install a HyperShift operator on a managed cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster that hosts the HyperShift operator is the Hosting Service Cluster. This step uses the `hypershift-addon` to install the HyperShift operator on a managed cluster.
```

+
.. Create the `ManagedClusterAddon` HyperShift add-on by creating a file that resembles the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: addon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterAddOn
metadata:
  name: hypershift-addon
  namespace: <hypershift-management-cluster> 
spec:
  installNamespace: open-cluster-management-agent-addon
----
+
Replace `hypershift-management-cluster` with the name of the managed cluster on which you want to install the HyperShift operator.

.. Apply the file by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f <filename>
----
+
Replace `filename` with the name of the file that you created. 

. Create an OIDC s3 credentials secret file named `hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials` for the HyperShift operator. Create the secret in the same namespace where your `hypershift-management-cluster` is hosted. 
+
The secret must contain 3 fields:
+
* `bucket`: An S3 bucket with public access to host OIDC discovery documents for your HyperShift clusters

> *  `credentials`: credentials to access the bucket

Reviewer 2: I suggest making a special note here, the credentials file must contain the authentication information of the `[default]` [profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html), because at present hypershift will only use the  default profile to operate the bucket by default

* `region`: region of the s3 bucket

+
See https://hypershift-docs.netlify.app/getting-started/[Getting started] in the HyperShift documentation for more information about the secret. The following example shows a sample Amazon Web services secret template:
+
----
oc create secret generic hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials --from-file=credentials=$HOME/.aws/credentials --from-literal=bucket=<s3-bucket-for-hypershift> 
--from-literal=region=<region> -n <hypershift-management-cluster>
----

+
*Note:* Disaster recovery backup for the secret is not automatically enabled. Run the following command to add the label that enables the `hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials` secret to be backed up for disaster recovery:
+
----

> oc label secret hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials -n <hypershift-management-cluster> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=true

Reviewer 3: I would change this

<hypershift-management-cluster> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=true

to

<hypershift-management-cluster> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=""

That's because the value=true seems to imply that this is a boolean value, with true=backup, false=skip from backup 
The value can be any string, including empty ''; the label existence results in backing up the resource

Author: That is perfect @birsanv . That was what I needed from you. I have made the change in the source for both secrets. Thanks!

----

. Confirm that the `hypershift-addon` is installed by running the following command:
+
----
oc get managedclusteraddons -n local-cluster hypershift-addon
----
+
The output resembles the following example, when the add-on is installed:
+
----
NAME               AVAILABLE   DEGRADED   PROGRESSING
hypershift-addon   True
----

Your HyperShift add-on is installed and the management cluster is available to managed HyperShift clusters. 

[#hypershift-deploy-cluster]
== Deploying a HyperShift managed cluster

> After you install the HyperShift operator and convert an existing cluster into a HyperShift management clusters, you can now provision a HyperShift hosted cluster by creating a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you install the HyperShift operator and convert an existing cluster into a HyperShift management cluster, you can provision a HyperShift hosted cluster by creating a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource. 
```

> After you install the HyperShift operator and convert an existing cluster into a HyperShift management cluster, you can provision a HyperShift hosted cluster by creating a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the HyperShift operator and converting an existing cluster into a Hosting Service Cluster, you can provision a HyperShift hosted cluster by creating a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource. 
```

. Create a cloud provider secret as a credential using the console or a file addition. The following example shows the format for Amazon Web Services:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-aws-cred
  namespace: default      # Where you create HypershiftDeployment resources
type: Opaque
kind: Secret
stringData:
  ssh-publickey:          # Value
  ssh-privatekey:         # Value
  pullSecret:             # Value, required
  baseDomain:             # Value, required

>   aws_secret_access_key:  # Value, required

Reviewer 4: where can I see the list of AWS permissions needed and what would be created within the given account?

Author: @zhujian7 : Can you help with this?

Reviewer 2: Will check with hypershift team.

Reviewer 2: > This is probably the closer thing we have atm https://hypershift-docs.netlify.app/how-to/aws/create-infra-iam-separately/. We have https://issues.redhat.com/browse/HOSTEDCP-325 in the backlog

https://coreos.slack.com/archives/C01C8502FMM/p1653289841737249?thread_ts=1653275720.105499&cid=C01C8502FMM
…（⊙＿⊙；）…😁

+
* To create the secret using the command line, run the following commands:
+
----
oc create secret generic <my-secret> -n <hypershift-deployment-namespace> --from-literal=baseDomain='your.domain.com' --from-literal=aws_access_key_id='your-aws-access-key' --from-literal=aws_secret_access_key='your-aws-secret-key' --from-literal=pullSecret='{"auths":{"cloud.openshift.com":{"auth":"auth-info", "email":"xx@redhat.com"}, "quay.io":{"auth":"auth-info", "email":"xx@redhat.com"} } }' --from-literal=ssh-publickey='your-ssh-publickey' --from-literal=ssh-privatekey='your-ssh-privatekey'
----
+
*Note:* Disaster recovery backup for the secret is not automatically enabled. Run the following command to add a label that enables the secret to be backed up for disaster recovery:
+
----
oc label secret <my-secret> -n <hypershift-deployment-namespace> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=true
----

. Create a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource file in the cloud provider secret namespace.
+
.. Create a file that contains information that resembles the following example: 
+
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1

Reviewer 4: May be elaborate a bit what intent is being expressed by a user when apply this CR?
e.g creating infra in a provider account, creating a hosted control plane in a management cluster, creating infra compute capacity in the previously created infra.

Author: I added the suggestion. See if it looks ok. Thanks!

Reviewer 5: Yes. This was to work around the 4.11 problem that we can't address quite yet in the release code.
So instead we show how to customize the release version here under `image`

kind: HypershiftDeployment
metadata:
  name: hypershift-demo
  namespace: default
spec:

>   hostingCluster: hypershift-management-cluster     # the hypershift management cluster name.

Reviewer 4: I find it pretty strange pattern that the CR dictates its controller. Usually that's transparent and agnostic for any kubernetes CR kind and you define the controller scope via namespaces.

Author: @zhujian7 : This looks like more of an implementation question than a doc question, if I am understanding correctly. I am not sure how to address this one.

Reviewer 2: @enxebre Could you give a detailed explanation on the `the CR dictates its controller`? sorry I don't quite understand what this means.

Reviewer 4: >@enxebre Could you give a detailed explanation on the the CR dictates its controller? sorry I don't quite understand what this means.

```
spec:
  hostingCluster: hypershift-management-cluster     # the hypershift management cluster name.
```

I was referring to that ^^, but @cadawson is right, it's more of an impl discussion so probably orthogonal to this PR.

As for this PR specifically I'm not sure as a use where do I get this value from `hypershift-management-cluster`?

Reviewer 2: The hypershift deployment CRs are on the hub cluster, there may be several hypershift management clusters managed by the hub. and the hypershift-deployment-controller will transfer the hosted cluster CR to the hypershift-management-cluster according to the `hypershiftDeployment.spec.hostingCluster`. 

The hypershift deployment cluster is defined [here](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/3425/files#diff-2d2db7358476c2f0699a501f0122880f74f3900f2e9aab1d2c4d0503e6b63c25R29), maybe we should bold it to make it more obvious.
And change it from `hypershift-management-cluster` to `hypershift-hosting-cluster` is good for me. @cadawson WDYT?

> . Create a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource file in the cloud provider secret namespace. The `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource creates the infrastructure in the provider account, creates a hosted control plane on a management cluster, and configures the infrastructure compute capacity in the created infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource file in the cloud provider secret namespace. The `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource creates the infrastructure in the provider account, creates a hosted control plane on a Hosting Service Cluster, and configures the infrastructure compute capacity in the created infrastructure.
```

[#hypershift-configure]
= Configuring Hosted Control Planes

> You can deploy Hosted Control Planes by converting an existing cluster to a Hosting Service cluster and then deploying a cluster that is managed by the HyperShift management cluster that you converted. 

Reviewer 4: Is it a `Hosting Service cluster` the same than a `HyperShift management cluster` (both terms used in this sentence)? if so why do we refer the same thing we different terms? any reason to not use management cluster consistently (which is kind of commonly used across the industry ecosystem)?

> You can deploy hosted control planes by converting an existing cluster to a hosting service cluster and then deploying a cluster that is managed by the HyperShift management cluster that you converted. 

Reviewer 5: management = hosting service

*Important:* Because Hosted Control Planes is a Technology Preview feature, the related components are disabled by default. Enable the feature by editing the `multiclusterengine` custom resource to set the `spec.overrides.components[?(@.name=='hypershift-preview')].enabled` to `true`. 

Enter the following command to verify that the Hosted Control Planes feature is enabled:

----
oc get mce multiclusterengine-sample -ojsonpath="{.spec.overrides.components[?(@.name=='hypershift-preview')].enabled}"
true
----

[#hypershift-convert-mgt-cluster]
== Converting an existing cluster to a Hosting Service Cluster

[#hypershift-convert-mgt-cluster-prereq]
=== Prerequisites

You must have the multicluster engine operator installed on at least one cluster that is managed by {ocp}. The multicluster engine operator is automatically installed when you install {product-title-short} version 2.5, and later.

> *Note:* If you want your {product-title-short} hub cluster to be your Hosted Control Planes management cluster, you can configure `local-cluster` as your Hosting Service Cluster.

Reviewer 4: Same questions than https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/3425/files#r888824346

Is it "your Hosted Control Planes management cluster" same than "your Hosting Service Cluster"?

> *Note:* If you want your {product-title-short} hub cluster to be your hosted control planes management cluster, you can configure `local-cluster` as your hosting service cluster.

Reviewer 5: management = hosting service

> *Note:* If you want your {product-title-short} hub cluster to be your hosted control planes hosting service cluster, you can configure `local-cluster` as your hosting service cluster.

Reviewer: Do you think we can add a few words on what `local-cluster` is? Extracurricular but might make a difference for new users.

Complete the following steps to convert an {ocp-short} managed cluster to a hosting service cluster:

. Install the HyperShift add-on.
+

> The cluster that hosts the HyperShift operator is the hosting service cluster. This step, uses the `hypershift-addon` to install the HyperShift operator on a managed cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster that hosts the HyperShift operator is the hosting service cluster. This step, uses the `hypershift-addon` to install the HyperShift operator on a managed cluster.
```

We use "HyperShift Add-on", is there a reason its codified here with lower case?

+
.. Create the `ManagedClusterAddon` HyperShift add-on by creating a file that resembles the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: addon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterAddOn
metadata:
  name: hypershift-addon

>   namespace: <hypershift-management-cluster> 

Reviewer 5: hosting-service

spec:
  installNamespace: open-cluster-management-agent-addon
----
+

> Replace `hypershift-management-cluster` with the name of the managed cluster on which you want to install the HyperShift operator.

Reviewer 5: hosting service

.. Apply the file by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f <filename>
----
+
Replace `filename` with the name of the file that you created. 

> . Create an OIDC s3 credentials secret file named `hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials` for the HyperShift operator. Create the secret in the same namespace where your `hypershift-management-cluster` is hosted. 

Reviewer 5: hosting-service

+
The secret must contain 3 fields:
+
* `bucket`: An S3 bucket with public access to host OIDC discovery documents for your HyperShift clusters
* `credentials`: A reference to a file than contains the credentials of the `default` profile that can access the bucket. By default, HyperShift only uses the `default` profile to operate the `bucket`.
* `region`: Region of the s3 bucket

+

> See https://hypershift-docs.netlify.app/getting-started/[Getting started] in the HyperShift documentation for more information about the secret. The following example shows a sample Amazon Web services secret template:

Reviewer 5: I don't think they have this in those doc's, but I have the minimum permissions this ID needs if you want to put that somewhere.

+
----
oc create secret generic hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials --from-file=credentials=$HOME/.aws/credentials --from-literal=bucket=<s3-bucket-for-hypershift> 

> --from-literal=region=<region> -n <hypershift-management-cluster>

Reviewer 5: hosting-service

----

+
*Note:* Disaster recovery backup for the secret is not automatically enabled. Run the following command to add the label that enables the `hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials` secret to be backed up for disaster recovery:
+
----

> oc label secret hypershift-operator-oidc-provider-s3-credentials -n <hypershift-management-cluster> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=""

Reviewer 5: hosting-service

----

. Confirm that the `hypershift-addon` is installed by running the following command:
+
----

> oc get managedclusteraddons -n local-cluster hypershift-addon

Reviewer 5: local-cluster = `<hosting-service-cluster>`

----
+
The output resembles the following example, when the add-on is installed:
+
----
NAME               AVAILABLE   DEGRADED   PROGRESSING
hypershift-addon   True
----

> Your HyperShift add-on is installed and the management cluster is available to managed HyperShift clusters. 

Reviewer 5: hosting service

  baseDomain:             # Value, required
  aws_secret_access_key:  # Value, required
  aws_access_key_id:      # Value, required
----
+
* To create this secret with the console, follow the credential creation steps by accessing *Credentials* in the navigation menu. 
+
* To create the secret using the command line, run the following commands:
+
----
oc create secret generic <my-secret> -n <hypershift-deployment-namespace> --from-literal=baseDomain='your.domain.com' --from-literal=aws_access_key_id='your-aws-access-key' --from-literal=aws_secret_access_key='your-aws-secret-key' --from-literal=pullSecret='{"auths":{"cloud.openshift.com":{"auth":"auth-info", "email":"xx@redhat.com"}, "quay.io":{"auth":"auth-info", "email":"xx@redhat.com"} } }' --from-literal=ssh-publickey='your-ssh-publickey' --from-literal=ssh-privatekey='your-ssh-privatekey'
----
+
*Note:* Disaster recovery backup for the secret is not automatically enabled. Run the following command to add a label that enables the secret to be backed up for disaster recovery:
+
----
oc label secret <my-secret> -n <hypershift-deployment-namespace> cluster.open-cluster-management.io/backup=""
----

> . Create a `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource file in the cloud provider secret namespace. The `HypershiftDeployment` custom resource creates the infrastructure in the provider account, creates a hosted control plane on a hosting service cluster, and configures the infrastructure compute capacity in the created infrastructure.

Reviewer 5: I might mention the `creates a hosted control plane...` as the last entry in your list, and also include provisioning of nodePools that leverage the hosted control plane.

+
.. Create a file that contains information that resembles the following example: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: HypershiftDeployment
metadata:
  name: hypershift-demo
  namespace: default
spec:
  hostingCluster: <hosting-service-cluster> 
  hostingNamespace: <clusters>  
  infrastructure:
    cloudProvider:
      name: <my-secret>
    configure: True
    platform:
      aws:
        region: <region>
----
+
Replace `hosting-service-cluster` with the name of the cluster that hosts the HyperShift operator. 
+ 
Replace `clusters` with the namespace to which hosted cluster and node pools belong on the hosting service cluster.

.. Apply the file by entering the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f <filename>
----
+
You can refer to the https://github.com/stolostron/hypershift-deployment-controller/blob/main/api/v1alpha1/hypershiftdeployment_types.go[field definitions] of the API to ensure that they are correct.

. Check the `HypershiftDeployment` status by running the following command:
+
----
oc get hypershiftdeployment -n default hypershift-demo -w
----

> . After the hosted cluster is created, it is automatically imported to the hub. You can verify this by running the following command: 

Reviewer 5: Or looking in the Cluster Console
